Architecture Diagram Description:<br/>
The architecture model was updated to reflect how the design of the system is highly intertwined with the game storyline. A pipe-and-filter model still best reflects the base design since a filter in this system represents an actor/player choice. The “Actor Choices” node is emphasized because this is the starting filter that drives the whole design of the system. The actor choices affect every game aspect and resulting action. The pipe is the result of that choice, which then leads the actor to make a new choice. The main filters are the rooms because the actor cannot progress through the storyline without visiting a room. And, nothing happens in the game until the actor leaves the first room and begins to explore. Once inside a room, the actor could potentially engage in three action types: interact with a Non-Player Character (NPC), engage in combat with a zombie if one is present in the room, or explore the room and pick up items that may help the actor later on in the story. The model also reflects the consequences of the player choosing not to engage with NPCs; interacting with NPCs is the only way to progress in the game because certain NPCs will impart knowledge about the game, such as the win conditions, and potentially how to defeat certain enemies.<br/>
<br/>
Class-Level Design:<br/>
The system is based around an object-oriented language that is a syntax combination of C++ and Javascript, deployed strictly within the TADS environment and dependent on its interpreter. The functionality of the language is deployed through a library that has pre-defined object classes that are directly instantiated by the main game source files so that a developer does not have to define commonly used objects in their own class files. These commonly used object classes are pre-packaged with the IDE and interpreter and can be accessed through the TADS adventure library, and directly imported into game source files with the header <adv3.h>. The ability to import these pre-built libraries also allows a developer the functionality to create their own external libraries and directly access them through the main game source file. The interpreter links these source files at compilation so that the full game package includes the external libraries, which are then handled by the system like the base TADS libraries.<br/>
<br/>
Since we are not directly defining our own superclasses within the system, we are modifying base functionality by inheriting methods from the objects class and either modifying those methods, or adding to their functionality. This is specifically important with the game display banner. In order to display a hit points counter, the banner class has to be extended to create a child of the active parent window, which is the main game window, and continuously updated throughout the game. This can be accomplished by extending the base I/O functions built into TADS, instead of directly editing the banner API.<br/>
<br/>
The super classes in TADS are Objects and Things because these classes provide the basic functionality of the game. They allow a developer to define the player as an “actor” object type and then carry out game actions by utilizing the functions built into the Actor class. Each object is further extended by subclasses that allow the multiple instances of the object to be instantiated and interact with base objects. In a sense, it is the responsibility of the developer to instantiate an object by utilizing subclasses so that these can have the full functionality of their parent classes plus the methods defined in the subclasses.<br/>
<br/>
Control Issues:<br/>
For our project we are not using threading. Since we are event driven there should not be multiple events going on at once because it could cause issues. When it comes to issues pertaining to external communication that affects control, one issue is that the game is based on single actions and each action activates other options that the player can take. This would include the introduction of new storyline, images, and sound. We may implement some ‘hint’ features to help the player make meaningful actions towards the storyline and winning the game.

<br/>
