
The story starts in a research space station that has an unknown outbreak infecting humans, first making them sick. Then, the illness kills them and reanimates their bodies to further spread the outbreak. You, the player, start off in your room, waking up to start your shift as a character of your choosing. After leaving your room, you get a message saying there is an unknown outbreak spreading rapidly through the space station. From that point you are given multiple choices to choose from, where the initial goal is to find out more about what’s going on and if it can be contained. Based on your choices, you may run into the Chef, Security Specialist (veteran), or Engineer, all of which you can choose to bring with you and change the outcome of the storyline. After a series of choices, you get midway through the story and speak with the onsite doctor about the infection. It’s here when the doctor informs you that containment isn’t possible and escaping would be the only option. At that time you go through another series of choices where the goal is to get in contact with another space station. The only way to contact anyone not already on the research space station, is to use the Communications system in the COMMS room. You then fight your way to the COMMS room to find where to evacuate to and to warn any remaining survivors of the outbreak. For the last section of the story, you fight your way to the ship to escape with whoever you kept in your party. There will be different ways to get to the ship and escape, based on your previous decisions. If you escape, you win! If you’re infected, you lose.

When the game begins it starts with a black screen and the player will be presented with options on what characters can be chosen. The player then wakes up in their room and walks out to find the area devoid of life with scratch marks lining the walls and doors. The main task is to survive the zombie outbreak in the space station, but there are different requirements that are needed in order to achieve this. For example, in order to enter a room and progress through the game, the player needs to find key cards. Any new room gives the player a chance to find characters, items, or key cards. When in a room they can interact with characters or use items if they have any. The characters they meet can be left behind or added to the party, depending upon the player’s choice. With the different characters that they meet there could be added effects to the party.  For example, a character can help the player upgrade their weapons and another could help give better stats to their items such as the doctor increasing the effect of a healing potion. There would be different types of rooms that can be entered and they would be textually different, to distinguish them. For example, a kitchen would have ovens, pots, pans, a refrigerator, and such. A living quarter would have a bed, a small desk with a lamp, and a chair and maybe something that would make the room unique like some posters or background items. When going into a room there is also a chance of an encounter with zombies aboard. When the encounter happens there would be a message to the player and the battle begins. The battle would be turn based, similar to Pokemon, and the player would be able to attack and use items for the encounter. The player would also have an option to try to escape, but they only have one chance per encounter. If the player succeeds they would run away , go to previous rooms, and have the option to go to other rooms. If the player fails their turn would be used and they would need to win or die in the encounter. If an escape is used, the other times that a player tries to escape the chances decrease that it succeeds. At this point in time the player would need to be able to defeat the zombies that are encountered and move on to different rooms. If the player fails the encounter, the player and the rest of the party is killed and the player would need to restart the game. Throughout the game the choices that the player makes would have an impact on the story, and in the end it would determine if the player is able to escape or die in the space station. If the player makes the right choices and survives they are able to escape with the crew, and return to Earth. 

Throughout the course of the game the player will be able to encounter a wide variety of different non-player characters (NPCs), items, and enemies.  For instance, if a player walks into a room, there will be a random chance to find a consumable item like a first aid kit that will be able to restore health to the player or a party member. Throughout the story the player will also obtain certain key items that will help them progress further in the game. There will be things like key cards that will unlock new areas for the player to go through, upgrades that the player can acquire for their gear and weapons, and items they will need to beat certain types of enemies. The player will also have a chance to find NPCs that can join their party and provide certain benefits if they are added to the party. This can range from things like having a doctor in your party, making the use of first aid kits more efficient, and thus healing for more health. Or even something like having an engineer in your party that will make the upgrades for gear and weapons either better, or just easier to obtain. Upon entering a room, akin to most role-playing games (RPGs), the player will have a random chance to have an encounter with an enemy or group of enemies. The difficulty of these encounters will vary based on how far in the story the player has progressed, starting off easy in the beginning, and becoming more difficult later in the game. Finally the player will have to face certain boss encounters that will be more difficult than the regular enemies in the area, and will sometimes require the acquisition of certain items to beat. These encounters will also scale with the stage in the game that the player is in.

The player will interact with the game though text-based decisions. The text-based decisions will be presented as a list of actions that the player can choose from when they want to interact with the environment, NPCs, items, and zombies. Depending on past choices the player has made in the game different text-based decisions will be presented to them. The player will also find that along with text-based decisions being printed out to their screen, they will also have a storyline presented to them. This storyline will vary just like the text-based decisions depending on the past choices they made in the game.  As the player progresses through the game they will have the chance to form positive or negative relationships with NPCs through their text-based decisions. These relationships built with NPCs can impact gameplay as it can make the game harder or easier. One example of how a positive relationship with NPCs could impact gameplay would be befriending a doctor who could help heal you during or after an encounter with a zombie. One example of how a negative relationship with NPCs could impact gameplay would be if the player became enemies with a chef who in turn would tamper with the player's food causing the player to lose health or other stats. Along the journey the player will also be presented with ASCII (American Standard Code for Information Interchange) art which will enhance their gameplay by giving them a visual of NPCs, items, or environments. ASCII art is art created from a selection of characters in the ASCII table. When these characters are placed together in a specific sequence they create images. These images formed from the characters can range from extremely simple to extremely detailed. There are many methods of creating an image that is considered ASCII art; one popular method that we will likely implement would be image to text conversion through applications or websites such as ascii-art-generator.org (https://www.ascii-art-generator.org).

The initial thought for the platform is that since it is a text-based adventure game, the group would use Java Swing to program a basic graphical user interface (GUI). However, after reviewing feedback, the group decided to use an engine such as TADS (https://www.tads.org/index.htm) or Quest (https://textadventures.co.uk/quest) to assist with the game creation and customization. This is because the addition of characters and objects will make the program and the player progression unnecessarily complicated in Java. With either the TADS or Quest engines, the group can focus on the storyline, game progression and mechanics, and spend less time on creating a basic framework for the actual game. The TADS engine has its own combination of C and JavaScript that it uses to code the actual game actions. It uses base C syntax but incorporates a programming model like JavaScript’s where the programmer does not have to deal with memory management. Another advantage of using an engine is that TADS provides common object libraries such as food, clothing, containers, objects that can be carried, and many more. One of the drawbacks of programming a game with a TADS engine is that the game requires a TADS interpreter in order to be playable. Fortunately TADS provides a free downloadable player kit for Windows, Mac, and Linux/Unix. By contrast, the great advantage of Quest is that any game created with that engine can be directly played on a browser, requiring no special installations. Quest also provides an extensive guide to the base code requirements which are a combination of HTML and JavaScript. Quest also provides libraries with base objects, in addition to guides on how to use NPCs that enhance a text adventure but also allows flexibility to turn a game into a RPG, since that may be the end result of the game as time allows.
